Let's consider the following situation: when we pick up a pickup, we set visibility to false for the
root component and also for all child components. Let's do it through the blueprint
for a custom pickup on stage. And also the collision stops responding, but this is not so important now.
And until the respawn happened, the pickup is in its current state -
it is invisible to us, but not to EQS. Let's check this one through our EQS_TestingPawn. Let's move it.
The invisible pickup passes all EQS tests. This way the NPC can start moving
towards the invisible pickup. This is, roughly speaking, wrong. This can be fixed in different ways.
You can create your own generator that will produce only visible actors,
or you can create your own test that will filter such actors. This is what we will do with you.
The test, in turn, can be done in different ways. You can rely on the Visibility of components,
but this is not a very reliable way, because various design solutions are possible, when the root component is
invisible, but you can take the pickup, or vice versa. A more reliable solution is to create a special
pickup function that will check if it is available for pickup or not. That is, our test
will be done specifically for pickups. Let's get started. Go to the EQS directory. We create a new class.
Let's enter Test. Find in the class tree EQS Test.
The base class is called EnvQueryTest. We also see all the library tests of the engine.
The class name must match the pattern: "EnvQueryTest underscore class name".
The engine uses this pattern to determine the name of the test in the blueprint editor EQS.
Click the next button. We call the test EnvQueryTest_PickupCouldBeTaken.
We create a class. I added a constructor to the class beforehand so as not to retype it.
A constructor with an initializer and also included the BasePickup header file.
Let's go to the test header file and fall into the base class. Searching for a function
called RunTest. This function is responsible for all the magic. It is called
every time the EQS starts up. Copy the function signature.
We override it in our class and create the body in the .cpp file.
In this function, we need to go through all the pickup actors and filter out those that cannot be taken.
Let's see how this is done in tests from the engine library and implement
our own test in the same way. You can open a test that we have already used, for example, trace.
Let's go to the .cpp file of the test and first take a look at the constructor. Some variables are
initialized in the constructor . The first is called cost. She is responsible for the difficulty of the test. If we fail
in enum, we can see that there are three kinds of difficulty: low, medium, and high. It all depends
on the mathematical operations that we apply to the tested objects. Under the hood, this information is
used for filtration. It is absolutely unimportant to us. The next variable is ValidItemType.
She can be a vector, an actor. Depends on what type of data our test will work with.
Next comes the call to the SetWorkOnFloatValues ​​function. FilterType is set depending on the parameter.
We also observed this type in the blueprint editor. If we fail in enum, we can
see what options we have. These are minimum, maximum, range and match. Our test is purely logical,
so the variable must be set to match. This value is set if you pass
false to the SetWorkOnFloatValues ​​function. Context is not important to us. TraceData is an internal variable of
this class, so let's copy the first three lines and paste them into our constructor.
Set Cost to low. We won't have any mathematics, so the test is absolutely elementary.
Change the type to actor and also pass the value false to the function. As a result, the filter type will be Match.
That is, logical. Let's copy the header file for the type. Let's replace vector with actor.
So when I created the RunTest function, I accidentally deleted the const again. We return it. Let's go back to the trace test.
Let's see how the iteration over the actors in the RunTest function happens. We move down.
Find the for loop. EQS has a special type of iterator that iterates over all
generated entities. Let's copy this cycle completely. We insert it into our RunTest function.
Let's clean up this code. We don't need an inner for loop.
We also don't need the ItemLocation variable. We only need the getter code for the actor.
We will not go into details of the implementation. This is not so important. Let's try converting
this pointer to a pickup class right away . Making Cast. If the pointer is null,
then go to the next element. We call the operator continue.
If the pointer is not null, then create a local variable called CouldBeTaken.
And assign it the value of a function that does not yet exist. Let's also call it CouldBeTaken.
The function will return true if the pickup can be picked up.
Next, depending on this flag, we need to mark the current item: whether it passes our test or not.
If the condition is met, then we need to call the ItemIterator function called SetScore.
It has several parameters: the first one is this TestPurpose. It is also a member of the
class, so we can write TestPurpose. This enum is also exposed in editor.
We can see what values ​​it has: Filter, Score and FilterAndScore.
The next variable is FilterType. Our FilterType is set to Match. We set it up
using the SetWorkOnFloatValues ​​function. The next argument is score. We pass the value true to it,
because we can understand the pickup. The fourth argument is the expected value. We also pass true there.
If our condition is not met - the pickup cannot be taken, then we can call the iterator function
called ForceItemState. The first argument is a special enum,
which is responsible for whether this test passed or not. It has two elements: Failed or Passed. In our case, we transmit Failed.
The pickup filter test is ready. You need to create a CouldBeTaken function. Let's do this
in a base pickup class. Let's go to the header file. In the public section, we declare a function.
It will return a boolean value. We also put the const specifier. We create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
The function should return true when the pickup can be taken and false when it is impossible. This condition can be defined in different ways.
In our particular case, we can do this using a respawn timer.
The timer manager has a special function called IsTimerActive.
It takes a timer handle as an argument and returns true if the timer is ticking.
That is, we need to invert this condition: if the respawn timer does not work, then the pickup can be taken.
We also need to make TimerHandle a member of the class. Let's move it to the private section.
In order to test our test in EQS, let's create an additional property that will
be of type boolean. Let's call this property CouldBeTakenTest. Let's set the default value to true.
And temporarily, let the CouldBeTaken function return this property, that is, we will
switch this property in the blueprint and see if our pickup passes the test or not. We can compile the project.
Open EQS AmmoPickup. Add the test we created. It should appear as PickupCouldBeTaken.
Save asset. Go to viewport. Select EQSTestingPawn. All pickups are tested.
Let's set the property of one of them to false.
Let's regenerate the EQS. The CouldBeTaken function returns false and the pickup test fails.
We can verify that this is really our test: turn it on, turn it off, or turn off other tests.
If you open the details panel of the test and change the property BoolMatch of our filter, we will see that it does
not affect the test in any way , but the test architecture assumes that this flag should invert our conditions,
so let's add this functionality in the code, although this is optional.
So, our next task is to figure out how to get a given boolean value. Go to the .cpp file of the trace test.
At the very top of the function, we see the code for getting a boolean value. Let's copy these two lines.
Let's move them into our RunTest function. The BoolValue variable is of a special type,
that is, it is not a pure boolean. This variable subscribes to property changes and, in order to get a
raw boolean value, you need to use the GetValue function. Let's call our variable WantsBeTakable.
It will take on the value true or false, depending on what we set in the editor.
We can now simplify all our filtering code and only use the SetScore function.
We copy it. Remove the entire conditional statement and replace the last two parameters of the SetScore function.
In the first of them, we will pass the value of the CouldBeTaken variable, that is, in fact, true or false - the result of our test.
And in the second parameter, which determines the desired test result, we pass the WantsBeTakable variable.
Launch the editor. First, let's check that our new code doesn't break anything. Everything works exactly the same.
Now let's change BoolMatch to false. We see that the condition is now inverted.
Our test has been successfully created. Let's put some order in the classroom. Add const auto everywhere where possible.
Next, in BasePickup, uncomment our production code that depends on the timer and remove the CouldBeTakenTest property.
The very last moment - we will also add this test to the EQS FindHealthPickup.